# Christian Burk's Management README

## Checking my privelege
I arrive at every moment with two facts that have not altered throughout my adult life: I am white and male. These facts distort reality around me with a bubble of privilege that I try to recognize and question even as they alter what I perceive and how I am perceived. Privilege is easy to see during a traffic stop or job opportunity, but in most cases it is water to fish: invisible and noticeable only in its absence. When I encounter information or experiences that do not conform to what I "know," I investigate it and the assumptions that accompany my privilege so that my analysis is not unduly affected by whiteness or maleness. I sometimes even describe my thought process where my privilege and the world meet. 

## How I talk
That externalized thought processing can show up as me talking a lot. I have actually been called long-winded during a job interview. It's not always because I have a lot to say but that I sometimes feel the need to verbalize disparate ideas or experiences to better understand them. Thus, in trying to externalize my thoughts accurately, I sometimes sacrifice focus and clarity. I have learned, though, that 1) not every thought of mine is brilliant and worth sharing and 2) silence has its own value. 

## How we should talk
Silence is actually an invitation for the rest of the world speak. This is particularly important when I am with you. You are the most important truth to me when we are together, and I will let silence give us room for our thoughts and your words. That does not mean I will always understand you or you, me. That's what questions are for. I hope you ask a lot of questions. I know I'm going to. I see questions as tools for investigating an organization, a relationship or even the way you and I think about the world, our work or each other. 

## When we should talk
To get to know you and work with you, I hold regularly scheduled one-on-one meetings, typically one per two-week sprint and 45 minutes to one hour in length. I am open and welcome impromptu discussions as they are needed, though, to supplement what we share in one-on-ones. The purpose is to give you a platform to discuss your concerns, whether they be about specific work or more generally about you and your role in the team. I will want to know how I can support you, what interventions I can make on your behalf, for instance. I will also take the time to review items we discussed previously to see what progress has been made. I also want to use that time to look ahead for opportunities that interest you and allow you to consider the future you imagine for yourself and how we can combine our efforts to achieve that.

## Tough talk
Sometimes our one-on-ones will involve feedback. Beyond the one-one-ones, though, when something stands out, either when you see room for improvement or when you "catch people doing something right" it's important to point it out to them. I will provide it to you, and I would ask that you provide it to me. Preferably, it is prefaced with something like, "Is this a good time for some feedback?" This enables the other person to better understand the pretext for the discusion and determine whether this is the right time or whether another time would be better.

## At the center of everything
More than anything else, I value honesty. After that, kindness. I do not believe that they have to be exclusive to each other. In fact, I would probably be the president of the diplomacy fanclub if I knew how to join, as I believe that the right message can make a point without making an enemy. I believe in the inherent goodness of people that can be better tapped by working with them and wanting what is best for them. That does not mean sugarcoating as much as contextualizing information to make sure that it is seen in its proper light. How we do things, not just what we do, defines culture.

## Let's keep it up
The development of culture is perhaps the most important responsibility of any leader of an organization. Moreover, leadership is not a function of a role or title. Hense, everyone's primary concern should be whether what we are doing today and how we are doing it will enhance our ability to achieve our goals or whether it will undermine that effort. We are tasked with the stewardship of other people's resources, their ideas, their creativity, their time, and their money. We are given charge over some small piece of a large endeavor that we cannot accomplished alone. This requires that we consider the others who toil with us. We have immediate work to do in accomplishing sprint goals, but how we do it should allows us to keep doing it over and over again with better results, faster turn around, and more enjoyment. It's like a farmer whose day-to-day concern is the production of food but whose long-term and overriding goal is the perpetuation of arable land, capable of sustaining life and growing crops for the next generation.

## Give it a try
To keep up that sustainable momentum, I have found that trying something is better than debating it, especially if it is a matter of minutes or a couple hours. I have seen debates between senior developers persist for days and sometimes weeks about a change that would be demonstrated in just a few hours. Those debates were not only acrimonious for the participants, but they also cast a pall over the other more junior members of the team, who, like me, thought the disagreement could be resolved through the coding up the proposed solutions and showing the team to get their feedback.

## Homo habilis
While I do not want to rush relationship building, I think efficiency in working habits at the indivual and team level are critical to success. Tools, habits and systems that maximize efficiency are welcomed and encouraged. For instance, I've been using Evernote for keeping my notes for nearly a decade. It is the one place I know they live. First, it encourages that I take notes because I have a place for them to be stored for retrieval and review, reducing some of that decision fatigue. Secondly, because I take notes, I remember better what happened, what was discussed or what I thought because I recorded it. The act of recording itself is an aid to memory. The more a team can capture its own thoughts in a similar place that makes it easy to share and find, the better the overal team. I encourage you to either share with me or your colleagues your work-optimizing techniques, as I share my own with you and/or encourage you to find or develop your own. 

## Change makes sense (dad joke)
Nevertheless, any process for doing work is imperfect and should be subject to change, just like this README. Given that I have changed in the past, I will likely change in the future. It may even change because of interactions and knowledge gained or created while interacting with the readers of this document. They may challenge me to question my assumptions, conclusions and habits and cause me to adjust myself accordingly. That is the nature of impactful relationships and interactions. Conversely, this document may change not even because I have changed so much as because my ability to articulate the who, what and why of myself will have improved with a greater self-awareness or through a more faithful rendition of that awareness. In any case, this is not the final word and testimony about me as a manager. Like any scientific knowledge, it is the best model to fit the evidence I have today.

